# pegasus-notes

Notes for connecting to GW's [high performance computing cluster](https://hpc.gwu.edu), Pegasus.

## Getting Started

### Generating SSH Keys

Generate a new SSH public / private key pair by following this [guide](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent).

The public key can be shared with anyone, without concern. The private key should never be shared.

Verify you see some files ("id_rsa" and "id_rsa.pub"):

```sh
ll ~/.ssh
```

Print the contents of the public key:

```sh
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

### Submit Access Reqest Form

Fill out this [access requet form](https://hpc.gwu.edu/getting-access/), with the following info:

  + PI: Michael Rossetti
  + Research Group: "Data Science Research Group" (rossettigrp)
  + Clusters: "Pegasus" only should be fine for now.

Paste your public key contents, or upload the public key file directly.

### Secure Network

You must be connected to GWireless on campus, or remotely through the [GW VPN](https://it.gwu.edu/vpn-global-protect).

So you will need a GW email account. Assistants at other universities can use this form to [request a GW account](https://my.gwu.edu/mod/accounts/affiliates/index.cfm).

#### GWireless

Login success when connected to GWireless!

#### VPN

In terms of downloading the VPN, here are some notes from the site:

> Palo Alto GlobalProtect 6.0.7 for macOS
>
> Download PaloAltoGlobalProtect-6.0.7-Mac.pkg (76 MB) (File will begin downloading in a few seconds)
> Palo Alto GlobalProtect allows remote access to GW resources through an encrypted connection to GW. Portal Address: gwvpn.gwu.edu
>
>Compatible with macOS 11 and higher. Note: During installation, also install System Extensions.

After you have downloaded and installed the VPN, you may need to give access to it via the Security and Privacy settings.

To use the VPN, launch the "GlobalProtect" program, and enter the portal address. Then sign in with your GW microsoft account (net_id@gwu.edu).

TBD -  apparently my account is blocked due to too many sign in attempts. Need to try again.

TBD - login success not yet acheived via VPN.

## Usage

### Logging In

Consult this [Getting Started guide](https://hpc.gwu.edu/documentation/getting-started-guide/) for more info.


```sh
ssh <username>@pegasus.arc.gwu.edu

ssh <username>@pegasus.arc.gwu.edu -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

If you see a "Permission Denied" issue, email support, and they might say... "You will need to use a one-time multifactor code to log in. Please use one of these codes when prompted..." and provide you with some codes. Try to login again, and supply the code. It works. Great!

It seems every time you log in, it will prompt you for a 2FA code, so store those codes somewhere.

### Multifactor Auth

After using one of the OTP codes to login for the first time, you need to run `google-authenticator` to configure future login ability using your Authenticator app.

> Once you have logged in, please run "google-authenticator" to configure multifactor configuration for your device (e.g. a smartphone): https://hpc.gwu.edu/pegasus/setting-up-two-factor-authentication-2fa/

Answer "y" for all the questions. Scan the QR code with your Authenticator app. In the future you will use a code generated by the Authenticator app instead of the OTP / scratch codes.

### Navigating the Filesystem

Your home folder is `/SEAS/home/<username>`.

### Creating a Python Environment

Here are some notes about getting Python installed on the server:

> You can install your own Python by installing miniconda or anaconda. If you download the Linux installer on Pegasus you can install it to your home or group directory, as mentioned regarding a virtual Python environment. By using miniconda/anaconda you can create multiple virtual environments with any Python version you wish.

Looks like there are [installable "modules"](https://hpc.gwu.edu/available-modules/) but only Python 3.7 is available, so we need to install Python ourselves.

#### Installing Anaconda

We can try first [installing on linux via anaconda](https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/install/linux/).

Python, pip, conda, apt-get not installed by default.

Try to install conda via curl, since apt-get not available. Need to find the version / date of the most recent anaconda (see [anaconda release notes](https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/release-notes))

Download the installer:

```sh
# Replace <INSTALLER_VERSION> with the version of the installer file you want to download
# For example, https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2023.09-0-Linux-x86_64.sh
# All installers can be found at repo.anaconda.com/archive/
#curl -O https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-<INSTALLER_VERSION>-Linux-x86_64.sh

#curl -O https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2023.03-0-Linux-x86_64.sh
curl -O https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2023.09-0-Linux-x86_64.sh


```

Install anaconda:

```sh
# Include the bash command even if you aren't using the Bash shell
# Replace ~/Downloads with the path to the installer file, if necessary
# Replace <INSTALLER_VERSION> with the version of the installer file
# For example, Anaconda3-2023.09-0-Linux-x86_64.sh
#bash ~/Downloads/Anaconda3-<INSTALLER_VERSION>-Linux-x86_64.sh

# reference download location "here" where we ran previous command from
bash Anaconda3-2023.09-0-Linux-x86_64.sh

```

Press ENTER one at a time until you get to the bottom of the cryptography notice, and it asks you to accept the license, you must say "yes" but if you keep entering it will quit out so do slowly.

Now we verify installation location:

```sh
PREFIX=/SEAS/home/<username>/anaconda3
```

> NOTE: conda installation can take 2 hours?  Maybe try miniconda instead?


#### Installing Miniconda



Tried `curl https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh` but no luck.

TBD - need to find out how to install miniconda






### Uploading Code

TBD

Here is some guidance from support about getting Python code set up on the server...

> The git module should be available to run git clone and git pull, and git push, you cannot push from github, but initiate the transfer from Pegasus.
>
> The python virtual environment can be built in your home directory (/SEAS/home/<username>), or group directory (/SEAS/groups/<groupname>) to share with others in your group, or on the lustre (/lustre/groups/<groupname>), and similar to any packages you need.
>
> Please do not run jobs against the NFS shares (/SEAS/home/) and groups (/SEAS/groups) but use /lustre instead, i.e. files should be read from and written to /lustre/groups/<groupname> directory.
>
> We use slurm for job scheduling which can run into interactive move (salloc) or batch mode (sbatch). The batch mode requires a shell script as a wrapper to call your python code.

Example shell script:

```sh
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH --time 00:10:00
#SBATCH -p nano
#SBATCH -o temperature.out
#SBATCH -e temperature.err
#SBATCH -N 1

. ~/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
python3 ~/temperature.py | sort -n
```
